This is a demo that I did for my, uh, back end performance course, where I'm building a web server
completely in C from scratch and showing you the accept calls.
You're going to see the accept call, the send calls.
You know, the read all these operations and the system calls.
So I thought it would be a very nice addition to this section, specifically socket programming as a
demo of this section.
I hope you enjoy it.
All right guys, so how about we set up our testing back end that.
We will use to simulate slowdowns in the request reading, simulate slowdowns in the connection, acceptance,
simulate or slowdown in the processing of the request, and simulate slowdowns in the response.
And the reason we want to do all of this because we I want to show you the difference, um, the different,
uh, bottlenecks that you can have in your backends, at least from a networking perspective.
You know, uh, I'm going to use C as a language to build this simple web server, but by all means,
you don't have to be proficient in C at all.
You know, this doesn't require you to be a C programmer.
Uh, I'm going to explain every single line of code that I'm going to write here, of course.
And you can technically build that same thing even in Node.js or Python.
I just like C because it shows you it doesn't hide anything.
It shows you exactly what any web server is doing.
Technically the NodeJS, the framework, the flasks, the the php's they do exactly the same, but they
hide it behind a single call, which, uh, I personally don't like.
You know, I like to see what is going on behind the scenes.
And, and this is our opportunity to see how a socket is created, how a server is being bound to a
socket, how listening happens, how connections is being accepted.
What is it, uh, what is the meaning of a connection?
Acceptance to begin with, how a socket is being read right, a connection, how to get a connection
by accepting, uh, a connection from the buffer, and then how to read data from the connection.
And it's important to say that we're reading just data.
The concept of the request HTTP request in this case is an application, uh, level, uh definition
has nothing to do with with the transport protocol.
And uh.
I think that I think that's what we're going to do.
Right?
So using that server, we're going to use all uh, we're going to use the same server and pretty much
all the three tiers analysis tier one and T2 and T3, uh T3.
And we're going to modify the script and the code as we go to, to do different things.
But this is a very important lecture.
Right.
Of course.
Uh, in the description of this lecture you will see the link to the GitHub where you can download that
final code.
Of course, you don't have to write it yourself.
Let's get started.
I'll be using Visual Studio Code because this is one of the simplest IDE that is becoming my favorite
these days.
So you can download Visual Studio Code.
You can.
I think it's available for Mac, Windows and Linux.
So this course will you can do this course in any language really.
So in any order using any IDE as well.
So I went ahead and created a folder.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and create a simple file here.
And I'm going to call it C Web server dot C.
Right.
And what I'm going to do here is I just to do an include include studio dot h.
Integer main.
Return zero.
And let's do a print f hello, world.
It's just a simple thing.
Let's make sure that my program is actually running.
When I debug, it's going to.
Uh, yell out to me saying, hey, you don't have the C extension, go ahead and install the C plus,
plus and C extensions.
This is a very critical for our debugging purposes, so the moment you start will try to run it.
Or even sometimes I notice that it will show you here in a in a on the side as a as a as a pop up,
something in the side will pop up and says, hey, uh, you want to install that?
So just go ahead and install it.
And by installing it, the beauty here is just you're going to get an option where you say, hey, do
you want to compile with GCC or clang?
Uh, it depends like what you have on your machine.
Right.
And my Mac, I think I have both like GCC and clang.
So just go ahead and use GCC.
And the moment you do that you'll see in the debug console hello world.
That's not very right.
It's not very informative, very simple program.
Now let's actually go ahead and write our web server that is a little slightly a little bit more sophisticated
than that.
So for now I'll include the libraries that I'm going to use here.
I'm going to use the Stdio.
I'm going to use the Stdlib.h string, I'm going to use the UN std, uh, dot h the socket and the net
inet dot h.
And it sees now that, hey, you want the extension that will give us the extension pack, which will
allow us to debug sockets and stuff like that.
So go ahead and also install that.
We're going to need both.
So the C and the C plus plus extension back.
So that's something I forgot about.
So when you include it it will automatically detect it which is awesome right.
So these are just normal uh libraries that we're going to need here for our socket programming.
So what we're going to define here is this step.
We're going to define our, uh, maximum application buffer.
So this is this will going to be used as an uh input for an array.
And that will determine the amount of memory in bytes where we're going to place whatever data we receive
from the network from the neck.
Right.
We're going to put it in in a specific area that we're going to reserve in my memory.
And that's the maximum size here.
125 so it's like one kilobyte that can technically represent the request size.
Right?
So this particular application is very simple.
It's not for production ready at all.
And because guess what.
That's a that's just a one kilobyte request.
If you have a like a request that is more than one kilobyte, it is going to fail because there is no
more room to put there.
Right?
So that's that's the thing.
So another thing we're going to do is we're going to define a port.
If I can't spell define port let's stick with 8080, the classic port.
This is where we're going to be listening right now our port.
So let's go ahead and define two variables right.
The first variable is the server file descriptor.
And the second one is the client server file descriptor.
So this what I'm building is the web server.
So when I listen I'm going to get a file descriptor.
And that file descriptor will represent my socket information that will it will have information such
as which port I'm listening to, which addresses I'm bound to, which um, uh, what what family, what
other family I have?
Is it IPv4, IPv6, all of this information.
And that will give me a number.
And that's, that's the server file descriptors.
And we're going to use that to spin off, if you will, multiple client file descriptors or this guy,
this client file descriptor only get created when a connection is established to that socket.
Right.
And you're going to get a client file descriptor.
And a client file descriptor is equal a connection.
Right.
That's an actual connection.
There is one of this.
And there is many of this.
In this scenario we're only using 1 to 1 because this this is this C this C web server.
I'm going to build it such that it's going to be a loop.
And I'm going to accept a connection, get a client connection, read from that client connection.
Uh, write to the client connection and close it.
Very simple.
So there won't be multiple connections at the same time, right?
It's just one connection at a time.
Of course.
It's a very simple web server.
So it will allow us to demonstrate all the things that we want to do.
Um, the next step is like we're going to define the socket address.
So this is a structure in C that will allow us to define the address for the server.
So in the address we will be using the what address.
What is what is the IP address.
I'm going to listen to.
What is the port I'm going to listen to.
There is a bunch of parameters right here that we're going to be defining.
And the address length is is important.
That's how C works.
You have to basically anything you define you have to tell me what's the size.
Because we don't auto calculate things.
C lets you do everything by yourself like it's your responsible for doing all of that stuff.
Right.
And I'm going to write the comments as I as I go here.
This is something we explained.
This is basically now the buffer.
Right.
So this was the size.
Now this is the actual array buffer of characters.
So we're dealing with characters.
All of them are null terminated.
The entire buffer is initialized to zero which is zero is the null character effectively right.
So all of them are initialized to zero the 1024 of them.
So now this is my beautiful buffer.
This is where we're going to copy data right from the operating system.
Receive kernel.
And that is per connection for every single connection we get from the client.
Right when I call, read on that connection, which is the client file descriptor.
Right.
This guy.
We will be copying the data that is received from the client.
Whatever the size it is, I want only copy max buffer worth of size down to my buffer.
So we're moving data from the receive buffer, right?
Which is where the the client sent data to, and we get it in the OS.
This is now living in the OS.
The read operation will move the data from that to the buffer, which is to our application.
So I like to explain this because no, not a lot of people know this, but there's a lot of copying
going on in programming, in socket programming.
And this is one of the problems that, uh, engineers still trying to solve it, kernel developers still
trying to solve this problem through something called zero copy.
So there is a lot of copying going on here.
We're gonna we're gonna understand this as we go.
So time to create the, the socket.
So let's go ahead and actually create the socket here.
So when we create the socket we use this class that's called socket.
And we send it three parameters.
The first one is like AF stands for address family init.
Init is the original version which is basically you can call it as.
You can also call it init four, which is IPV four.
There is another value called init six which is IPV six.
Like what do you support essentially.
Right.
So here I'm going to only deal with IPV four right.
So this is a socket only dedicated for IPV four.
Socket stream is a parameter that tells you that hey I want a streaming protocol.
This socket is a streaming protocol.
What does a streaming mean?
TCP is a streaming.
As we talked about in my back end engineering and my networking course.
Right.
Uh, TCP is a streaming protocol.
Uh, UDP is a message based protocol.
So I think that other if you want UDP.
So Dgram I think yeah, that's how you do it.
That's, that's if you ask you want to do this, if you want a stream you want this.
And the third parameter I'm not quite sure, but I think it's just that, hey kernel, select a protocol
for me because this doesn't technically do TCP.
It says give me a streaming protocol.
And this say, hey, just select any streaming protocol.
So you might have multiple ones.
Frankly speaking I think that's you always get TCP.
There is no other streaming TCP protocol that is built in the kernel that I'm aware of.
Maybe there is.
But yeah, this is always zero.
Essentially.
That's what I'm trying to say.
If this returns zero, uh, yeah.
Take this value that will create a new file descriptor.
If you don't know, uh, Linux and basically windows or any other program deals with file files, treats
everything as files.
And a socket is a file, a file is a file.
Uh, a printer is a file.
Everything is a file, right?
There's a file number.
So when you create this socket again we didn't specify anything which we just told it.
Hey create me a socket for me.
And that will give me a server file descriptor.
If this thing is zero, that means something failed.
I couldn't create the socket.
Now why?
I can't think of an example.
Why would this fail to be honest, right?
Because then we're not like listening or anything.
Maybe not enough memory, right, to create that socket.
Or maybe there is no network.
It could be right, but we're not done yet.
That means if you're if there is an error, just exit right with a with a error code.
Are you with me so far?
So now let's go ahead and actually start binding.
The first thing we're going to do is we're going to bind the socket.
And the first thing we're going to do is, is literally define the address family.
You notice that here this address is.
Is different, right?
Because this in this case you created a socket, but you didn't really defined, uh, the port and other
information.
The address is where you're going to define the IP address and the port.
Right.
So of course when you define that you're going to you need to say okay which version is this.
Or it's an IPV four okay.
What other things.
Address dot uh uh this is stands for socket and internet.
I think that's what it stands for sin okay.
The family is AF net.
The address is any address.
So this tells me like hey listening on 000, that's what I'm doing.
I'm trying to make it easy here.
This is usually a bad idea, right?
I always say that, uh, I forgot the what is.
I say there's a wrong here.
Send.
Edgar forgot that.
So yeah.
So we're listening on zero zero.
Essentially this is listening on all interfaces.
So if you have a Wi-Fi, if you have a 5G, if you have an Ethernet, that socket will be listening
on all of them.
Right.
And a lot of bad things happen when you do that, usually.
Because you and unintentionally listening on an interface where.
You.
Now you're exposing your application to an interface that is not necessarily you want to be exposed
to, right?
Like let's say you have a public IP address.
And if and you have a private IP address and this application is an admin only, so it shouldn't be
exposed, right.
We see this all the time with um databases being leaked where people accidentally created a MongoDB
on on AWS and they listen to all interfaces by default so that the public IP now, uh, accepts connection
to MongoDB or to Postgres directly from the internet, which is a bad idea, right?
So that's eventually this will makes our life easier because I don't want to just create now an actual
IP and show you all that stuff.
But just listen to this.
This is an example.
This is a test anyway, right?
Uh, the next thing we're going to do is actually the port.
So address dot, uh, port equal port.
And this is wrong by the way.
Right.
Because port is an integer.
That is the byte order of the integer is is basically what the host describe anything in the internet
that has a the bytes, the bits are ordered in something called the network order.
So anything you send you have to send it in a network order.
So this is zero.
So it doesn't matter right.
This is all the value is all zero.
So it doesn't matter.
Right.
But if you're sending a number or any other value you have to do an h uh h two uh ns right.
Which is host to network uh order effectively.
So this will convert this number to that.
Right.
And now we're going a little bit of more details.
But I think it's all relevant right.
Explaining that stuff.
Right.
Details.
We'll get to the juicy stuff soon.
And then finally we bind the socket.
Now we have the server file descriptor that we created here.
We bind it with this address by sending calling bind.
We give it the file descriptor.
We give it the structure a pointer to the address.
Right.
The address basically right.
Because that's a pointer.
But we give it the address here the address of the address.
Right.
And then we give it a size.
And then we give the size.
And if this is less than zero, that means the bind failed.
Usually when the bind fails, that means the the port is already listening.
Right.
But you can you can also override that by, uh, providing, uh, a specific flag that will allow you
to listen to multiple, multiple processes listening on the same port.
I talked also about that in my back end course in details.
Right.
So you can override that if you want.
And, uh, this, believe it or not, this actually does not listen.
So if you try to connect, that will fail because technically we're not listening.
The kernel did not created did not create the necessary data structures to start accepting all the stuff.
Now, this just created a record that said, okay, this file descriptor now point to the socket, but
it's not started listening or accepting or uh, actually.
Uh, responding to send requests right from TCP connections.
No, it doesn't do anything.
This is the final step that does that.
So this will create actually cuz you know, the receive queue, the send queue, the accept queue,
all of that jazz.
Right.
And it will start listening for the client.
And this I want you to pay attention to the second parameter here.
Right.
So when you call listen we give me hey listen start listening.
And probably and if you are familiar with NodeJS or other languages or frameworks, you will only probably
need to do this.
That's it right?
You probably create an object and then say listen.
And all the parameters are here.
So it's easier.
But it's it's good to understand what all of what is happening here right now.
If you look at this code and you look at your PHP application or Python, you will basically understand
you can do a 1 to 1 thing.
All of this stuff is happening behind the scenes.
Right?
So now we're listening and this is this value ten which is my default.
It's called the backlog or uh, the number of connections, uh, that can sit in the queue.
Basically.
You see, when we listen, we create a queue for my socket for the server, and that will have a length
of ten.
In this case, when a user tries to connect to your server on port 8080.
Right.
Because that's the default port, right.
What will happen is, uh, the kernel will finish the handshake.
It will put the syn in something called the send queue.
I don't want to talk about that right now, but it will respond with a syn ack and the client will do
an Ack.
And then that you have a full fledged connection, that connection is placed in the accept queue.
You'll have a, uh, something like that, right?
Connection one.
All the connections here, right?
So let's say you get a new connection.
We get?
Yes.
Here.
See?
Connection.
This is X means nothing.
Right.
So now we have a connection here.
So let's say, uh, the client doesn't call accept, which is what, uh, what what the client does
here, which is when I say client here, I mean the back end application with the back end application
calls.
Accept it will move, remove that from the accept queue and move it to its application.
And now it's managing it.
So now it's popped from the disk.
If the client doesn't call accept this will remain here.
So now let's say the client doesn't call accept at all right.
So this will remain here.
Another client connected.
So we completed the handshake and we put that other connection here.
And another client connected.
Another client connected another and another and another another.
And we don't accept we never.
And now we have what, ten is that even ten.
123456789 ten 1112.
Yeah, I added two.
So this is ten right now.
If another client wants to connect, the kernel will say, wait a minute.
You're trying to connect to this server right.
So this server in this case wait a minute.
You're trying to connect to this socket, the server file descriptor.
Uh, I'm sorry, but your backup, your accept queue is full.
I'm not even going to respond to you with a snack.
I'm not even going to complete the connection.
So if you ever get an error during connection, right?
Even it could be that the connection the server is not listening at all, right?
Or the accept queue is full and the and the back end application is not calling.
Accept right to move these connections to the to the to the to the client, to the to the memory, to
the back end application memory.
Right.
So let's continue.
This is where we actually do the actual work.
Where is this accept happening.
It's in a loop right.
Every every socket application has this loop right.
We loop forever.
It's an infinite loop, right?
And this infinite loop.
Always.
The first thing it does is calls accept, which is what we talked about.
Right.
And this is how uh, so let's add like just a message here saying, hey, okay, waiting for a connection
just for us so we can know that, hey, we've just printed that.
We're waiting for a connection.
So this is just all of this code does.
Once once we reach here, we start going in the loop.
The the first thing we do is like, hey, I'm waiting for a connection.
And next.
We call except.
Except is an operation that the backend application call.
Every backend application calls this, but you never see it.
You never see it in PHP or Python or Node.js.
It's hidden from you.
The back end framework does that for you already.
There is a loop that always calls, except you never just you.
Never.
You just never see it, right?
That is one main reason I wanted to do this in in a in C, because I want you to see get it.
I want you to see how the back end application is.
Actually, this is one of the most important calls to actually accept a connection.
For that server and create an instance of a connection.
Right.
Because that's a socket.
I like to explain this way.
Think of this as like a plug, right?
Like a wall socket.
And this is a plug that that goes into the wall.
Right.
So you can have infinite number of sockets that goes into the same, you know, uh, wall mounted,
uh, the wall socket.
Right.
Probably a bad analogy, but you get my point.
So you can have many connections, but one server file descriptor only in this case.
Right.
And that's it.
When you call accept you provide the server file descriptor which is my socket and the address information.
And that returns a client file descriptor which is my connection.
Right.
So client IFD in this case is the connection.
You can technically add this into an array.
And you can have an array of connections.
And you can call read on all these connections right.
Get it.
So we have our server socket the server socket we call accept on it.
And when there is a connection we get back an actual connection.
This call will actually block the application right.
Unless you do Epoll and IO.
You rang, which is not our topic today, but these usually just blocks.
The application just gets stuck here, gets stuck.
Unless there is actually something in the queue.
If the queue.
If the accept queue is empty, we are stuck here.
The code is just stuck here.
We know we never move, right?
But if there is at least one entry, we pop it from the accept queue from the operating system, accept
queue and move it.
That file descriptor is created at that point and we get that beautiful thing.
Other otherwise, in case of an error right.
We get an accept failure and we just fail, right.
So sweet.
Next step after we have a connection, what do we do with the connection?
The most important thing is actually call a read on that connection.
Like let's read what's in you.
Right?
And that is one of the most important things here.
Okay.
So Reed, you give it the client file descriptor which is the connection.
And you want to read.
Into this buffer.
What is the what is this buffer?
Remember, we created this a long time ago.
Uh huh.
And then I want to read only this much.
You don't want to read more?
I also write.
Don't bite more than you chew.
That's the buffer.
You.
If you read more, then you're going to exceed your buffer, of course.
Right.
And Jose can it can can it can it be the case where, uh, uh, we have more data in the receive buffer?
Uh, and we only read half of it.
Yeah.
Of course, that's why you have to call read multiple times.
Again, this is a this is a very simple example that assumes a lot of things, you know, and that's
that's why a sophisticated web server takes care of all these edge cases for you.
Um, Node.js or Python, flask, PHP, all they take care of all this nitty gritty details.
Right.
And what I forgot to mention is also so we talked about there is a receive.
There is an accept queue.
An accept queue is is one queue per server socket.
So when you create a socket you get one accept queue where the connections will live there.
But for the connection you actually get two different queues with your client file descriptor.
And those receive those are called the receive queue and the send queue.
Those two queues live in the operating system kernel as well.
And for that connection.
So for each connection you get two right.
The receive queue is where data for that connection goes to.
Right.
You're actually sending the request.
You go to that queue and the send queue is if you want to send stuff from the server back to the client,
it first goes into the send queue.
And then from the send queue it goes to the neck which is the network interface controller.
And from the network interface controller it goes to the actual application in the client side, you
know.
So there is a lot of copying again here.
So there is a copy.
So I have, I have data uh, and I'm now reading.
Right.
So the reading is coming from the receive queue to the uh.
To my application.
So there's one copy going on, but there's also another copy that happening from the network interface
controller when the data arrived to the receive queue.
Right.
So there is technically three copies.
Happening.
Right?
All right, so we printed.
But.
We don't even need to check what's in the request.
We just trust it.
So technically, what we need to check here is like, oh, is it a git request?
Is it a post?
Is it?
I'm not going to do any of that stuff.
I'm just going to respond with 200 requests here.
Right.
How do we respond?
Here is the.
Is the variable here?
We sent the request by writing the socket.
How do we send it?
HTTP 1.1 I'm using simple things to be on one 200 okay Content-Type text plain Content-length.
This is powerful because I'm going to play with that in in the in the coming lectures.
I'm going to play with these numbers.
Right.
Uh, I'm going to manipulate these numbers.
So this is actually exactly 13 characters.
That's why I wrote here.
13.
But this there is a big thing here that we're going to explain in a minute.
So now this is a string right.
There's an array pointer that a character pointer.
Right.
Here's the the operation.
For right now we are writing to the socket which means remember this.
This is a variable right.
So it's a it's defined in my process.
Uh where is this living.
It's a function.
So it's living in my stack in my main function.
Right.
Because it's a local variable I think in the heap is only malloc stuff.
Yeah I'm pretty sure.
Yeah.
This is in the stack because the, my function the main is a function.
And this is just a variable.
It's technically a pointer variable to a string.
And then, and then uh that lives in, in my memory.
Right.
Right in my application memory.
So what we're doing here is we're copying that response down to the client file descriptor, uh, send
queue OS.
We're writing it to the send queue for my connection.
And then the kernel will decide, okay, let's let's wait, let's wait, let's wait, let's wait for
more data.
And then it will just ship all of them to the neck, right.
And from the neck they will go to the application.
Make sense?
All right.
So there is like a lot of copying again going on here.
And then finally.
Before we end the loop, we close the connection again.
Very bad example here.
Never good for prediction.
I'm reading, responding and closing the connection.
Most of the HTTP connection are alive.
You never close it because you probably if you open a connection, you want to send a lot of data.
You can't just open a request and close it immediately after it's in the response.
Right?
That's just doesn't make any sense.
And I think we're done.
This is it, right?
How about we actually test our beautiful program here.
Let's go ahead and run.
It's listening.
I put actually a break point here.
That's nice.
It actually works.
And you can see that it's it's blocked here.
Except because I technically don't have any connections here.
Right.
So I can actually.
Let's do a let's go ahead and do that.
What are it does it does not like that, does it?
All right.
It might does not like me breaking this again.
Uh, let's go to let's open a safari.
Maybe.
Okay.
Let's go into Safari and type in http localhost 8080 and hit enter.
Notice that we are now unblock.
We were blocked here, remember?
Now we moved here and we got a client file descriptor for because file descriptor is our integer.
So we have the client file descriptor.
Let's go ahead and step in.
Now we have a data in the buffer.
And if you see closely get slash HTTP one one localhost all of that stuff.
That's what Safari is.
And effectively right.
Let's go ahead and just print it.
All right.
And we're gonna go ahead and response so we can see we have a response.
Hello world right.
Nice.
And that's it.
So now we can play the game of breaking point here.
Slowing down right here.
We can play a game where we're only like we're going to say like, hey, I have 20 bites, but we only
said, uh, 19 bites.
And then if we do that, then the technically the client side keeps waiting for more data because you
the headers are first received and we'll say, oh, you only.
So you said I'm going to send you say send me 20 bytes, but you only send me 19.
All these things we're going to play with all of that stuff.
All right guys, so this is basically.
The code that we're going to use, I'm going to push it in a git GitHub repo.
It's going to be available.
You know what?
Let's let's just do it right now.
All right guys, so I just created this simple repo.
Right now is going to be available in the description of this lecture.
So you don't have to rewrite the whole thing.
Just clone this repo.
You should have that.
And if you ever by the way, I didn't show you that.
If you ever want to do that outside of debug, you can technically, uh, compile your program, right?
Our program can be also compiled.
You can use gcc c web server dot C and then just hit enter.
Right.
That will create a dot out file.
And you can just do a dot out.
And that is effectively without debugging right.
You can just run the program.
So let's go ahead and then do maybe another.
So open another terminal.
Yeah, let's just do another terminal here.
Let's do curl localhost 8080 and we get hello world.
Nice by the way because we listen to all interfaces.
You can see that this also work.
Uh my IP address is 4323, if I'm not mistaken.
Unless this changed.
So this works too, right?
Uh, this works too.
Does that work?
Thought this should work.
Oh, this doesn't work because this is the IPv6 when we only listen to IPv4.
Okay, that's what I meant.
That makes sense, right?
Because we're not listening to IPv6.
We're listening only to IPv4.
So only that or this should work, right?
127001 should work.
All right guys.
So that is it for me for this lecture.
As a summary.
What we did, we learn.
We learned how to basically build a web server from scratch using C, and we explain every single thing
that happens.
What does the server do?
It creates an IPv4 address family.
It will listen on port 8080 only for IPv4 on all interfaces.
Not a good idea in production unless you know what you're doing and when a connection is is received.
When a connection is completed in the kernel, it will be placed in the accept queue.
This back end app that we wrote will call accept, which will move the connection from the kernel to
my application as a client file descriptor.
And then we take that number right.
And when we call read on, it says, hey, do you have any data?
You have any data that read also could block, which I don't think we talked about that.
But if you don't have anyone, if nobody sent you any data yet, they connected to you but didn't send
anything.
This read will also block.
We'll just be stuck there, right?
So, um.
Unless you have data that will be read, and then we'll be unblocked and we'll give it to you.
Right?
That's why asynchronous programming is really critical here with socket programming.
Whatever you we do here is all blocking, right.
And maybe it's great for explaining purposes because we it's a very simple to read and we get to do
tricks to it.
We want to block the application so we know what it's doing.
But it's not good for production of course.
Right.
That's why asynchronous is a way to go.
We have read we read the data, we manipulate it, we check it.
We do an if statement.
If your get do this if your post do that.
If you go query a database, do all this stuff, fancy stuff.
And then now we're ready to actually build out the response to respond to the server.
And we can delay as much as we want here.
We can do a sleep to, uh, kind of actually simulate a delay.
We'll do all of that in the, in the, in the upcoming lectures.
Right.
And then once we have the data, we write it to the socket.
So now we're moving the data from my memory, from my stack.
Uh, right.
To be specific, if you have like you could have malloc this application data and it could be in the
heap.
Right.
So you move it from the heap down to the send buffer for the operating system.
And then from the send buffer the kernel we're our job is done.
The kernel is just uh can decide to delay.
Right.
And that's one other set of configurations that you can do this the kernel sometimes you say, hey,
I just sent the data.
Why is the client not receiving it?
It's just the kernel deciding to wait a little bit to receive more data from you and then ship it all
together.
Right.
So this slight delays, I'm talking like microseconds or sometimes a few milliseconds.
Not much.
Right.
But all up to the kernel at the end of the day.
And then we basically close the connection.
That's what the application does.
We'll do all sorts of trick to manipulate this so we can, uh, demonstrate a slow application in all
its on its facets.
I hope you're going to enjoy the coming lectures.
Sorry if that lecture is long, but I thought it's critical to explain all that stuff.
All right.
See you in the next one.